---
title: "Trasfer"
bg: green
color: black
fa-icon: toggle-on
---

## Practice-oriented talks and interviews 

1.	Robot Leadership. Talk at the Future of Leadership Initiative (FLI) in Munich, March 2019
2.	Would you work for a robot? Talk at the University of St.Gallen (HSG), January 2019
3.	Higher Education Personnel Management. Talk at the Danube Conference for Higher Education in Ulm November 2017
4.	Unternehmerisches Denken und Handeln. Talk at the workshop of the ‘Kompetenzzentrum Industrie 4.0’ in Marktoberdorf, September 2017 
5.	Ergolfsfaktor Grit. Interview for an article of Andrea Bittelmeyer in the ‘ManagerSeminare’, September 2017 



## Teaching

2019	Leadership in Academia, Certified course for professors (with Dr. Kristin Knipfer)

2019	Communication & Conflict Management, Young Professional Program Master in Management & Innovation at the TUM Executive Education Center (in English)

2018 	Team Formation, EMBA Innovation and Business Creation at the TUM Executive Education Center (with Thomas Münch; in English)

2018 	Entrepreneurial Leadership, Customized Program at the TUM Executive Education Center

2018 	The Big Bang Theory Syndrome: How Stereotypes Influence Our Careers, Soft-skills course for Physics students at TUM; 3 ECTS (with Prof. Dr. Elena Hassinger; in English)

2017/18	Entrepreneurial Leadership, Master seminar at TUM; 6 ECTS (with Prof. Dr. Claudia Peus)

2017	How Do Humans Function?, Bachelor seminar at TUM; 6 ECTS (with Prof. Dr. Claudia Peus)

2017	Leadership in Academia, Certified course for professors at TUM (with Prof. Dr. Claudia Peus)

2013/14 – 2016/17	Business Planning, Master seminar at TUK; 6 ECTS (with Prof. Dr. Matthias Baum)

2014/15		Train-the-Trainer: Entrepreneurial Leadership, Certified course for master students at TUK (own conceptualization)

2014		Train-the-Trainer: Communication & Conversation, Certified course for master students at TUK (team teaching)

2012/13	Start with Business Planning: Key Qualifications, Course for bachelor students at LMU; 6 ECTS (tutor)

2012 	Career Orientation and Scientific Skills, Course for bachelor students at LMU; 3 ECTS (tutor)

